== Stinus Description ==

Stinus `[`the project`]` is a Geant 3 supported project at
wayf.dk. Its goal is to develop an opensource package - Stinus
`[`the software`]` - which will allow a federation to run a
federated provisoning service - Stinus `[`the service`]`.

Stinus `[`the service`]` will make it possible for an identity
provider in a federation to provision users and groups to
supported service providers using only one "feed" to Stinus.

It should be ridiculous easy for an identity provider to
establish and configure provisioning to a service provider - a
checkmark on a webpage + identity provider authentication
towards the service provider is all that is needed. Optionally
the identity provider will be able to do additional
configuration eg. filtering the users/groups and values that
will be provisioned.

Stinus `[`the service`]` will function as a multiplexer for
concurrently synchronizing multiple service providers from one
feed and as a repository for general or service provider
specific connectors.

Stinus `[`the service`]` will not persist any user/group or
configuration data at the federation level, except for identity
provider authentication configuration and optionally hashes of
object records for performance reasons.

Stinus `[`the service`]` only supports identity provider
initiated provisioning - ie. the data is always pushed to Stinus
at the identity provider's discretion.

Stinus does support multiple feeds from a single identity
provider eg. to allow aggreation of data that is not aggreated
in the identity providers directory. Feed-back feeds for
indentity provider or inter-identity provider attribute
aggreation is also supported.

Stinus `[`the software`]` will if at all possible support
existing frameworks for connectors. Specifically the java
connectors from Suns 'Identity Connectors Framework' now?
'http://code.google.com/p/connid/' and/or
http://openicf.forgerock.org/ used by Sycope, Midtpoint, openIDM
... will be supported.

Although Stinus `[`the software`]` will be designed for
federation use - ie. no persistence - it will be available for
running on an identity provider's premises - with the same ease
of configuration and access to the same connectors.

=== Stinus `[`the software`]` architecture ===

Stinus consists of different services:

* Stinus `[`core`]`

The central Stinus server which services provisoning streams
from identity providers and multiplexes to the configured
service providers. `[`core`]` sets up and tears down the
necessary connectors for connecting to the service providers.
Runs on a federation server.

* Stinus `[`connectors`]`

The actual connectors. Are clients of `[`core`]` and
communicates with `[`core`]` using a language agnostic protocol
(pt. gearman). Non-Stinus-native connectors might need a small
wrapper.

* Stinus `[`logger`]`

A web service - conforming to the `[`logger`]` API which allows
the different Stinus packages to log to an identity provider
provided sink.

* Stinus `[`config`]`

The configuration tool for Stinus. Runs on a federation server
and have access to `[`repo`]` but, persists all configuration
data to [persistence].

* Stinus `[`feed`]`

The gateway between the identity providers directory (AD/ldap)
and ^`[`core`]`. A typical identity provider will not allow
outside access to its directory so `[`feed`]` will run inside
the identity provider, read from ad/ldap and push data to
`[`persistence`]` will eventually be available in .Net, Java and
php for easy deployment in the identity providers current
infrastructure.

* Stinus `[`repo`]`

The repository for connectors and configuration metadata for
connectors. Might be common for all Stinus installations - both
in federations and at identity providers.

* Stinus `[`persistence`]`

A web service - conforming to the `[`persistence`]` API - of the
identity provider's choice. It allows Stinus to run as a
federation service, while at the same time only persist any
privacy critical data at a place chosen by the identity
provider.

=== Stinus POC implementing details ===

Stinus `[`the software] - specifically [core`]` - will initially
be developed in php.

We will to the greatest extend try to leverage exisisting APIs
and existing implentations of the APIs for the Stinus services.

The intra `[`core`]` messagebus will be Gearman.

The POC will demonstrate provisoning of users/groups from a
Danish university to Google Apps for Education using AD as the
source directory and  (one of) the existing ICP connectors for
Google.

=== Stinus - why starting from scratch / why php ===

This is the 2nd time Stinus `[`the project`]` has been through
the initial consideration about starting from scratch in php or
base Stinus `[`the software`]` on an existing open source IDM -
specifically Syncope, which Surfnet has choosen for their
project.

Both Jacob Christiansen (jach@wayf.dk) and I have independently
reached the same conclusion:

The effort to adapt an existing large java sourcebase to fit the
Stinus requirements seems too large considering:

 * the don't persist anything centrally requirement for Stinus

 * our limited experience with developing in - and run java

 * the question of what value the Stinus use case will bring to the existing project

 * the ability to use the existing connector framework from Syncope et. al.

 * the resources available to Stinus (0.75 fte)

 * Wayf's exprience in developing in and running php